[Music]
We would like Swami Ramdev to
tell those people two such asanas which everyone should do on that day, i.e. on the
21st, after waking up in the morning.
They thought that if they too have become a part of it, then on
21st June the
world will do yoga and their eyes will also be on
India that the
Prime Minister of the country who has declared 21st June as National
Yoga Day in the UNO, the
people of that country are also doing yoga, are they yogis or are
sick and suffering, then when they look at India,
they should see India doing yoga and they will feel
that even today India
is a country of yogis and not of sufferers, we all are the
children of sages, so we should be proud of ourselves, so first of all
move your legs a little, it is so easy, see, do butterfly like this, it is
so good, Swami
ji, what is the benefit of this, our hip
joint and knee joint get relaxed,
now see, if you do not do this, then
its butterfly will fly only upwards, so you become
flexible with this, you should try, the more you
go downwards, the more flexible you become, the more
your health will improve.  It is
good for it, isn't it? Even if people are
not able to do many asanas, they should at least do one or two asanas,
like those who have diabetes should do Mandoo asana, there is nothing
better than this for stomach and diabetes,
leaving the breath out,
bend forward like this, keeping the neck straight, the
chest touches the knees,
I have seen this Mandoo asana
and Kapalbhati pranayama, diabetic
patients become non-diabetic,
people have hepatitis, colitis, pancreatitis,
kidney problems, fascial cysts of uterus,
polycystic ovaries, nowadays ladies are facing a lot of
problems due to this, they have
infertility and you must have seen
hair problems and hormonal imbalance on the face,
this happens due to polycystic ovaries, so for that,
Kapalbhati is for cholesterol, for
thyroid, for strengthening bones, there is deficiency of
Vitamin A, Vitamin B, Vitamin C, Vitamin D,
Vitamin B12, calcium and
iron, so from Kapalbhati,
Kapalbhati and Anulom Vilom, I say that
these two should never be left, I mean,
if we keep doing even two, then
see Kapalbhati  From our
reproductive system to
our entire synaptic parasitic system and the entire
body has 72 crore 72 lakh 1020
veins, five sheaths, five vital airs and five senses of action,
four inner particles,
our entire existence is very
mysterious, exciting and very scientific, so it is a
very difficult task to understand it completely, even
scientists have not been able to understand
how each and every cell of the body, all our cells of the body, the entire internal system
works, that means, every action takes place in the body as per our wish, that is
called
voluntary system, autonomic system, that means,
our brain, our eyes, our heart
and our entire internal system
works automatically, so through Anulom Vilom, our
entire system, all the nerves,
which are called Ida, Pingala, Sushum and
Kundalini awakening, all this happens, so
this is taken from the left, left from the right, taken
from the left,
at least 5 minutes Kapalbhati, 5 minutes
Anulom Vilom, sit in any asana  If you
cannot sit down, then do it sitting on a chair. This much will do.
Get up in the morning and
drink some water, then freshen up and practice this yoga. Pay a
little attention to your eating habits
and try to be happy. Some people
say, Baba Ji, how can one remain happy when there is so much
inflation, so much unemployment, so much poverty, so many
problems, so many problems, then how can one
remain happy? I say, do one thing, be happy.
God has made us human beings. By
making us human beings, God has given us all the wealth. He has given us
birth in any country, be it Brahmin, Kshatriya, Vaishya, Dalit. By becoming human beings, we
can become anything. So, we are humans, so be
happy and do yoga early in the morning. And you
asked for two asanas, I will tell you two more things. Do yoga early in the morning and do
karma yoga throughout the day. It
means that the one who does yoga early in the morning,
then he cannot be aggressive in life, he
cannot be lazy. If there is no color, action,
reaction and in-action in his life, then he will
progress in life. So, do yoga. By doing yoga, if you do these
two things, the doors of health and prosperity will open in life.
[Music]